# Connected app configuration for an org service callout

1) In the First Step, go to the Setup Configuration Menu, and in the Quick Find Box, type App Manager. Click on the search result App Manager. Salesforce will show all of the org’s apps and connected apps. Click the New Connected App button.

A new menu will be displayed, as shown next. In the image below, all the required fields have been filled out. Afterwards, they can be edited to suit your org’s needs. But make sure to choose the Selected OATH Scopes:
    Access and manage your data (api)
    Perform request on your behalf at any time (request_token_offline_access)
Click Continue. You will have to wait in order to test the app.

2) In the Second Step, go to the Setup Configuration Menu, and in the Quick Find Box, type Provider. Then click the option Auth. Click New. Choose Salesforce as the Provider Type, and click Save.

The Consumer Key, Consumer Secret and Default Scopes were previously defined during the creation of the connected app. Copy those values from the recently created app and paste them in their corresponding fields. Leave the rest of the fields with their default values, and click Save. Now that the Provider has been created, copy the URL shown in the next image, edit the recently created app in order to paste the URL in the Callback URL Field in the Connected App created in Step One.

3) On the Third and Final Step, go to the Setup Configuration Menu, and in the Quick Find Box, type Credentials. Then click the option Named Credentials and Salesforce.

Pay attention to the fields URL and Authentication Provider. In the first one, make sure that the base URL used is the one in Classic Experience, not the Lightning Experience one. As for the Authentication Provider field, look for the Authentication Provider recently created in Step Two.

Click Save. Salesforce will ask you to authenticate this configuration with your user credentials on save.

Once authenticated, Salesforce will ask you to Allow or Deny Access to certain information. Click Allow. Every time these Credentials are edited, it is recommended authenticate the changes with your user Credentials.  

4) To verify if connected app is working properly you can paste the following code and execute in the anonymus window, you should get a 200 OK.

```
HttpRequest feedRequest = new HttpRequest();
feedRequest.setEndpoint('callout:communityCredentials/services/data/v48.0');
feedRequest.setMethod('GET');
Http http = new Http();
HTTPResponse feedResponse = http.send(feedRequest);
System.debug('*Resp:' + String.ValueOF(feedResponse.getBody()));
System.debug('RESPONSE STRING: ' + feedResponse.toString());
System.debug('RESPONSE STATUS: ' + feedResponse.getStatus());
System.debug('STATUS_CODE: ' + feedResponse.getStatusCode());
```